# Governance Meeting Overview - November 7, 2025

```
â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”
â”‚  SPECTRUM DESIGN DATA GOVERNANCE MEETING                        â”‚
â”‚  Three Infrastructure Enhancement Proposals                     â”‚
â””â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”˜
```

## ğŸ¯ Your Mission Today

Present three **non-breaking, additive** infrastructure enhancements that enable:
- âœ… Safe token evolution
- âœ… Better traceability  
- âœ… Ecosystem integration

---

## ğŸ“Š The Three Topics

```
â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¬â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¬â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”
â”‚ 1ï¸âƒ£ LIFECYCLE METADATA  â”‚ 2ï¸âƒ£ TOKEN SOURCEMAPS    â”‚ 3ï¸âƒ£ DTCG FORMAT OUTPUT  â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ RFC #623                â”‚ RFC #626                â”‚ RFC #627                â”‚
â”‚ ğŸŸ¡ Seeking Feedback     â”‚ âœ… POC Complete         â”‚ ğŸŸ¡ Seeking Feedback     â”‚
â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚
â”‚ Infrastructure for      â”‚ UUID-based traceability â”‚ W3C standard format     â”‚
â”‚ safe token evolution    â”‚ from code to source     â”‚ for interoperability    â”‚
â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚
â”‚ Unblocks: Token         â”‚ Enables: Deprecation    â”‚ Enables: Third-party    â”‚
â”‚ refinement work         â”‚ warnings, Figma sync    â”‚ tools, broader adoption â”‚
â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚
â”‚ Timeline: Nov-Dec 2025  â”‚ Timeline: Q1 2026       â”‚ Timeline: Q1-Q2 2026    â”‚
â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚                         â”‚
â”‚ Seeking: Feedback on    â”‚ Seeking: Feedback on    â”‚ Seeking: Feedback on    â”‚
â”‚ approach & priorities   â”‚ POC & next steps        â”‚ strategic value         â”‚
â””â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”˜
```

---

## âš¡ Quick Start

```bash
cd /Users/garthdb/Spectrum/slides
npm run dev:governance
```

**This opens your main presentation** (15 slides, ~25 minutes)

---

## ğŸ“‹ Time Allocation

```
â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¬â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”
â”‚ 0-2 min     â”‚ Introduction & Overview                  â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ 2-10 min    â”‚ Topic 1: Token Lifecycle Metadata        â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The problem: No safe deprecation       â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The solution: Lifecycle metadata       â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ Benefits & governance process          â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ 10-18 min   â”‚ Topic 2: Design Token Sourcemaps         â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The problem: Lost traceability         â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The solution: .tokens.map files        â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ POC status & future capabilities       â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ 18-24 min   â”‚ Topic 3: DTCG Format Output              â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The problem: Proprietary format        â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ The solution: W3C standard output      â”‚
â”‚             â”‚ â€¢ Benefits & ecosystem integration       â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ 24-30 min   â”‚ Questions & Next Steps                   â”‚
â””â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”˜
```

---

## ğŸ’¬ Key Talking Points

### Opening (30 seconds)
> "I have three related proposals that enhance our design data infrastructure. They're complementary but independent. All are non-breaking and additive. Let me walk through each."

### Topic 1: Lifecycle Metadata (7 min)
**Problem:** No formal lifecycle tracking or deprecation process  
**Solution:** Structured metadata with governance-enforced notice period  
**Seeking:** Feedback on schema design and governance process  
**Key feature:** Minimum 2 monthly meetings between deprecation and removal

### Topic 2: Sourcemaps (7 min)
**Problem:** Generated code loses connection to source tokens  
**Solution:** .tokens.map files with UUID-based traceability  
**Seeking:** Feedback on POC approach and platform priorities  
**Key stat:** POC complete, zero linting errors, fully validated

### Topic 3: DTCG Format (6 min)
**Problem:** Proprietary format limits ecosystem participation  
**Solution:** Add W3C DTCG format as additional output  
**Seeking:** Feedback on strategic value and implementation approach  
**Key feature:** Non-breaking, keeps current format unchanged

### Closing (30 seconds)
> "All three strengthen our foundation without breaking existing work. They enable us to evolve tokens safely, maintain traceability, and participate in the broader ecosystem. What questions do you have?"

---

## â“ Top 5 Expected Questions & Answers

### 1. "What's the timeline?"
- Lifecycle: Nov-Dec 2025 (schema + tooling)
- Sourcemaps: Q1 2026 (production ready)  
- DTCG: Q1-Q2 2026 (transformer + integration)

### 2. "What's the impact on platform teams?"
Minimal for existing code. All changes are additive. Future benefits: deprecation warnings, better tooling, ecosystem access.

### 3. "Are there dependencies?"
- Lifecycle: DNA-1485 (in progress)
- Sourcemaps: None (POC complete)
- DTCG: DTCG spec v1.0 (nearly ready)

### 4. "Can we approve some but not all?"
Yes! All three can proceed independently. Each has standalone value.

### 5. "What about breaking changes?"
None. All three are infrastructure enhancements. Lifecycle metadata provides the framework for *future* safe deprecations.

---

## ğŸ¯ Feedback Questions

```
â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¬â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”
â”‚ Token Lifecycle        â”‚ â€¢ Schema design complete?               â”‚
â”‚ Metadata               â”‚ â€¢ 2-meeting minimum adequate?           â”‚
â”‚                        â”‚ â€¢ Priority vs. other initiatives?       â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ Token Sourcemaps       â”‚ â€¢ POC architecture sound?               â”‚
â”‚                        â”‚ â€¢ Which platforms prioritize?           â”‚
â”‚                        â”‚ â€¢ Concerns about approach?              â”‚
â”œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¼â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”¤
â”‚ DTCG Format            â”‚ â€¢ Strategic value clear?                â”‚
â”‚                        â”‚ â€¢ Timeline reasonable?                  â”‚
â”‚                        â”‚ â€¢ Implementation concerns?              â”‚
â””â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”´â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”˜
```

---

## ğŸ“š Resources at Hand

### For Presenting
- **Main deck:** `governance-meeting-nov-2025.md` â† START HERE
- **Deep dives:** `token-lifecycle-metadata.md`, `token-sourcemap-poc.md`, `dtcg-format-output.md`

### For Reference
- **Prep guide:** `GOVERNANCE_MEETING_PREP.md` â† Read this!
- **Summary:** `governance-meeting-summary.md` â† Share this
- **This overview:** `MEETING_OVERVIEW.md`

### Links to Share
- RFC #623: https://github.com/adobe/spectrum-tokens/discussions/623
- RFC #626: https://github.com/adobe/spectrum-tokens/discussions/626  
- RFC #627: https://github.com/adobe/spectrum-tokens/discussions/627

---

## âœ… Pre-Meeting Checklist (2 minutes)

```bash
# 1. Test your slides
npm run dev:governance

# 2. Verify navigation works
#    Space = Next slide
#    Left Arrow = Previous slide
#    'o' = Overview mode
#    'Esc' = Exit

# 3. Verify POC location
ls ~/Spectrum/spectrum-tokens-ios/POC_COMPLETION_SUMMARY.md

# 4. Have RFC links ready
# (Copy from above)
```

---

## ğŸ¬ Show Time!

```
â”Œâ”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”
â”‚  You're ready! You have:                                      â”‚
â”‚  âœ… Complete professional presentations                       â”‚
â”‚  âœ… POC fully implemented and validated                       â”‚
â”‚  âœ… Clear asks for each topic                                 â”‚
â”‚  âœ… Answers to anticipated questions                          â”‚
â”‚  âœ… Supporting documentation                                  â”‚
â”‚                                                               â”‚
â”‚  Just run: npm run dev:governance                            â”‚
â”‚                                                               â”‚
â”‚  Good luck! ğŸš€                                                â”‚
â””â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”€â”˜
```

---

## ğŸ¯ Success = Getting Meaningful Feedback

1. âœ… **Lifecycle Metadata:** Feedback on schema design and governance process
2. âœ… **Token Sourcemaps:** Feedback on POC approach and platform priorities  
3. âœ… **DTCG Format:** Feedback on strategic value and implementation concerns

**Remember:** These are infrastructure enhancements that enable future work. You're presenting proposals and seeking input to refine the approach before proceeding.

---

**Meeting Date:** November 7, 2025  
**Duration:** 30 minutes  
**Your Topics:** Three complementary infrastructure proposals  
**Your Time:** ~24 minutes (leaving 6 min for Q&A)

**Final tip:** Emphasize that all three are non-breaking and additive. This reduces perceived risk and encourages open discussion about the approaches.

